you're about to hear a story of
transformation you may ask how one
achieves transformation and what the
process is that is the science of
transformative yoga so let's just take
my life as an example well working as a
trader in the petroleum sector in Europe
made me enough money to believe that I
could do no wrong and then the tragedy
which melted my life like a house of wax
memories of my glorious past haunted and
tortured me down to a very low point in
my life so what had I been pursuing for
most of my life I was 16 and I had to
find value and meaning again that is
when I discovered Cavalia Dom and thus
began the discovery of the self
[Music]
Oh
but first the man who made it all
possible
Swami Koval Anandi also known as Jaron
not gonna let me take you back in time
into a piece of history
Swami : anda is the founder of cavalry
at home this was in 1924 his vision was
to present the eternal truth of yoga to
the world through scientific validation
in a laboratory the laboratory happened
to be heavily at home he treated Mahatma
Gandhi the young Dalai Lama and
demonstrated his work to the likes of
Johnny Rue and Morarji Desai Swami
Collins work influenced the modern
resurgence of yoga in the West after his
death the Institute was left in the very
capable hands of his a disciple Sri opt
very shitty body is a world-renowned
pranaam a master and has carried on the
work of his bull for more than 15 years
now a Valderrama institution where
strictly as per some it is hers the
tradition has to be followed and yoga
without dilution has to be kept in
original form
[Music]
are there somebody but I shall say your
face to us will be others let us go
through how Cavalier Tom take someone
through the process of transformation we
start at the philosophical research
department of Carolina philosophical was
formed by Swami colon under for the
purpose of doing intensive research into
yoga and allied aspects of Indian
philosophy the department has more than
a thousand manuscripts and translates
ancient wisdom into the language of the
modern man this is done through books
academic papers journals and conferences
let's meet Research Officer dr. Rajesh
ward my colleague dr. mukajee as
philosophical research benefit humanity
philosophy has always been the mother of
all the sciences and all the branches of
knowledge and definitely the
philosophical wisdom is necessary in the
modern days q what is the process of
research we study the manuscripts and go
for an extensive literature review and
then we identify a research problem as
soon as the research problem is
identified we go for analytical and
comparative study after that we record
the outputs of the study and publish
them as a report in the research
journals and give a few examples of the
latest research that you have done and
it's only we have started collaborating
with IIT Delhi on few projects the
findings are then transferred to the
scientific research department for
validation
the scientific research was started by
Swami : andhe earlier animal life which
later evolved a scientific research
department when he started Cavalli Tom
in 1924 the research and validation
helps reintroduce the ancient wisdom
thus found in the ancient manuscripts
into modern society let me introduce you
to a research officer dr. Priscilla
Menon dr. Priscilla what kind of
research procedures does this department
follow a department has an a
multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary
approach to research that is because
Yoga is a holistic science so
accordingly we have five rings in our
department psychology physiology
physical education biochemistry and yoga
and allied sciences now this type of
approach that we follow in the
department has two aspects to it so we
have fundamental research as well as
applied research in fundamental research
what we try to do is unearth how and why
basically how the yogic phenomena are
acting on the body and mind level in
applied research there are two types one
is the therapeutic yoga research which
is done for medical conditions and the
second is Yoga for general well-being of
common people could you speak a bit
about the latest projects sure so they
recently we did a project on
intellectually disabled children and how
yoga can help them now these children
are are more commonly known as mentally
challenged children so what we observed
was yoga helped to improve the span of
attention it helped to improve their
motor skills ability to follow
instructions accurately all of this
another project that we have done is
related to how yoga can help with
absorption of micronutrients such as
zinc magnesium ion etc and again we had
very good results with that project
what kind of clever
does the department have our department
has collaborations with 35 Institutes
which are spread all over the world mmm
for example nations like Russia the US
Canada Singapore Japan Korea etc these
collaborations have been established for
various purposes like sharing of
expertise related to a particular
research area of research training of
tools equipments instruments related to
a specialized area of research jointly
organizing conferences seminars
workshops student exchange and
internships faculty exchange and also
accreditation for various yoga courses
and also affiliations
[Music]
now let me take you back to where I
started
the Cavaliers on college of yoga when I
joined here I knew that there was change
that lay ahead and it wasn't going to be
easy to start with it was going to be a
new environment with people from
different communities that I had no idea
about
[Music]
and this is your it's right elbow and
the teachings were taking me into the
world of bewilderment everything started
to make sense everything became rational
I was learning new things and getting
introduced to a new world of inner
sciences Patanjali Yoga Sutras hata
pradipika human anatomy and yogic
psychology this was new knowledge
[Music]
let's meet the principal of the college
dr. BR Sharma the first-ever formal
College of yoga was started here at
Gavilan on in the year 1951
wherever's from equal energy it was for
the first time that formal education in
yoga was introduced in the year 1962 the
Government of India to its Ministry of
Education recognized this as an All
India Institute of higher education as
the name suggests it was envisaged that
the college would teach the subject of
yoga in depth with synthesis of culture
yoga as taught here is based on the
interpretation of classical texts on
yoga which is verified by scientific
understandings
[Music]
this then takes us to the hospital and
health care center
during my stay here I have seen many
people come to the Center for relief
from the problems whether physical or
anxiety and stress or simply to get away
from it all
[Music]
ah
and then I have seen people leave here
in a very different state that they came
in I have seen transformation happen
[Music]
the wellness and rejuvenation Center is
the confluence of many sources of
knowledge and practices derived from my
ancient scripts
[Music]
for your stay there are simple
air-conditioned rooms and cottages
[Music]
the food is based on Ayurveda and
prepared on the Suffolk principles it is
simple organic vegetarian and very
nourishing the food itself causes the
deep cleansing of the system over a
period of time people come here for yoga
saunas long walks immersion in nature
and relaxation others come here for
week-long therapy based on panchakarma
foliation and deep cleansing which is
accompanied by the sattvic diet
[Music]
the naturopathy section here consists of
water steam and mud treatments along
with therapeutic massages the
participants come from different parts
of the world northern South America's
Europe the Asian countries and Australia
and of course Mumbai Delhi and many
other cities big and small in India
[Music]
the current head of the institution is
young enough and dynamic enough to take
this institution to the next level so
let's ask what his vision is some
equivalent angie had founded Kaveri Dom
but the fundamental principle of
simplification of yoga and its in-depth
rational understanding I would like this
place to continue with the ability to
have initiation to the yoke sadhaks
where they can come and start their
journey in the field of yoga it would
also be a place where the experiences
the fundamental experiences can manifest
and it also would be a place where
through this manifestation people can be
transformed
[Music]
all activities of Kavala ham revolver on
the central spiritual figurehead for
guidance and his name is Swami Mahesh
they are journey start which are
practices of the body that is hot yoga
or you start your journey through the
mind a psychological part sitting
quietly you can observe the breathing
which is coming and going or you can
observe how much thoughts are coming and
that way the yoga can work like a pure
water that water to the inner plant some
tea